PREFACE

Tffls edition has been prepared in the hope that some
scholars might be glad to study a set of forgotten poems
which had a very considerable influence upon the English
literature of the sixteenth century.

The Text is based upon that of the first printed edition,
of Mantua, 1498. The more important later variants are
mentioned in the notes. The spelling is modified to suit
the convenience of the modern reader. The punctuation is
my own.

The Introduction has grown to a portentous length, partly
because it seemed desirable to set down my authority for
almost every statement. And inasmuch as many of my
authorities are not easily accessible—at least, to American
scholars—it often seemed necessary to quote their actual
words. Hence the “ leaden sediment ’' of footnotes. I am
rather ashamed of this unlovely feature, but Ι feel that any
one who has tried to find any modern account of Mantuan
which is at once definite and accurate will be inclined to
excuse it. Perhaps Ι should add that a part of my material
has already been printed, in the Transactions of the Ameri-
can Philological Association‚ vol. XL.

Ι have devoted a good deal of space to the story of
Mantuan's popularity in England, and tried to show some-
thing of the precise range and character of his influence
there. It would be interesting to know whether his
Eclogues exercised any such influence in Italy, or France,
or Germany 3 but that subject must be left to others.

My Notes are mainly concerned with the question of
Mantuan’s sources, and only occasionally serve to explain
his meaning. Ι had thought of putting them below the

text, but they are hardly of sufficient importance to break
7

